Add CLIENT_DEVELOPER.md for azure-schemaregistry with comprehensive developer guidance (#41491)
Azure/azure-sdk-for-python: sdk/schemaregistry/azure-schemaregistry/CLIENT_DEVELOPER.md

   ```

2. Set environment variables:
   ```bash
   SCHEMAREGISTRY_FULLY_QUALIFIED_NAMESPACE=<your-namespace>.servicebus.windows.net
   SCHEMAREGISTRY_GROUP=<your-schema-group>
   ```

### Running Performance Tests

1. Navigate to the tests directory:
   ```bash
   cd tests/
   ```

2. List available performance tests:
   ```bash
   perfstress
   ```

3. Run specific performance tests:
   ```bash
   # Example: Run schema registration test
   perfstress RegisterSchemaTest --duration=30 --parallel=5

   # Example: Run schema retrieval test
   perfstress GetSchemaByIdTest --duration=30 --parallel=10 --num-schemas=100
   ```

### Performance Test Options

Common options for all performance tests:
- `--duration=30` - Number of seconds to run operations (default: 10)
- `--iterations=1` - Number of test iterations (default: 1)
- `--parallel=1` - Number of parallel operations (default: 1)
- `--warm-up=5` - Warm-up time in seconds (default: 5)
- `--sync` - Run synchronous tests instead of async (default: async)

Schema Registry specific options:
- `--schema-size=150` - Size of each schema in bytes (default: 150)
- `--num-schemas=10` - Number of schemas to use in tests (default: 10)

> For detailed performance testing setup and resource requirements, see the [Performance Tests README](tests/perfstress_tests/README.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For detailed performance testing setup and resource requirements, see the [Performance Tests README](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/blob/main/sdk/schemaregistry/azure-schemaregistry/tests/perfstress_tests/README.md).
```

3. Import required types from generated modules
4. Use the `patch_sdk()` function to register customizations
5. Ensure async and sync implementations remain consistent

## Related Libraries

### Azure Schema Registry Avro Encoder

The [azure-schemaregistry-avroencoder](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/tree/main/sdk/schemaregistry/azure-schemaregistry-avroencoder) is an extension library that provides Avro-specific encoding and decoding capabilities. It builds on top of this Schema Registry client to provide:

- Avro schema-based serialization and deserialization
- Integration with Apache Avro
- Optimized performance for Avro payloads

For detailed usage and examples, see the [Avro Encoder README](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/tree/main/sdk/schemaregistry/azure-schemaregistry-avroencoder/README.md).

## Running Tests

### Unit and Integration Tests

1. Set up test resources following the patterns in `conftest.py`
2. Run tests using pytest:
   ```bash
   # Run all tests
   pytest tests/

   # Run specific test files
   pytest tests/test_schema_registry.py
   pytest tests/test_json_encoder.py

   # Run async tests
   pytest tests/async_tests/

>    ```

Reviewer: remove

### Live Tests

Live tests require an Azure Schema Registry namespace. Set the following environment variables:

```bash
# Required for live tests
AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID=<your-subscription-id>
SCHEMAREGISTRY_FULLY_QUALIFIED_NAMESPACE=<your-namespace>.servicebus.windows.net
SCHEMAREGISTRY_GROUP=<your-schema-group>
AZURE_TEST_RUN_LIVE=true

# Authentication (choose one)
AZURE_TEST_USE_CLI_AUTH=true  # Use Azure CLI authentication
# OR
AZURE_CLIENT_ID=<service-principal-id>
AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET=<service-principal-secret>
AZURE_TENANT_ID=<tenant-id>
```

Run live tests:
```bash
pytest tests/ --live

> ```

Reviewer: 1. Login to Azure:
   ```bash
   az login
   ```

2. Set required environment variables (or create a `.env` file):

   The following need to be set to run live tests locally and authenticate with AzureCliCredential:
   ```
   SCHEMAREGISTRY_AVRO_FULLY_QUALIFIED_NAMESPACE
   SCHEMAREGISTRY_JSON_FULLY_QUALIFIED_NAMESPACE
   SCHEMAREGISTRY_CUSTOM_FULLY_QUALIFIED_NAMESPACE
   SCHEMAREGISTRY_GROUP
   AZURE_TEST_RUN_LIVE=true
   ```
  * Each namespace is Standard tier. Each namespace has one schema group, with schema type set as per namespace.
  * The schema group name is the same across namespaces. 
  
   If using CLI:
   ```
   AZURE_TEST_USE_CLI_AUTH=true
   ```

   OR

   If using pwsh:
   ```
   AZURE_TEST_USE_PWSH_AUTH=true
   ```

   Note: To run tests in playback mode instead of live mode, set:
   ```
   AZURE_TEST_RUN_LIVE=false
   ```
3. Install test dependencies and the package in editable mode:
   ```bash
   pip install -r dev_requirements.txt
   pip install -e .
   ```

   **Note**: If the azure-schemaregistry-avroencoder package is installed, you may encounter import errors due to issues identifying separate packages with shared namespace. To workaround this, you will need to install the client library in non-editable mode:
   ```bash
   pip install .
   ```
   Note: You'll need to rerun this command after making changes to the package.

4. Run tests:
   ```bash
   # Run all tests
   pytest tests

   # Run specific test
   pytest tests/livetest/synctests/test_queue_client.py::test_specific_function
   ```
4. Updating recordings:

   To pull test recordings from assets repo:
   ```bash
   python azure-sdk-for-python/scripts/manage_recordings.py restore -p sdk/schemaregistry/azure-schemaregistry/assets.json
   ```

   To push after recording tests in live mode:
   ```bash
   python scripts/manage_recordings.py push -p sdk/schemaregistry/azure-schemaregistry/assets.json
   ```

### Prerequisites for Code Generation

1. Install the TypeSpec client generator:
   ```bash
   npm install -g @azure-tools/typespec-client-generator-cli
   ```

2. Ensure you have the latest TypeSpec definitions by checking the [specification directory](https://github.com/Azure/azure-rest-api-specs/tree/main/specification/schemaregistry/SchemaRegistry).

### Regeneration Process

The client regeneration is controlled by the `tsp-location.yaml` file in the root of this package directory. This file specifies:
- The TypeSpec specification repository (`Azure/azure-rest-api-specs`)
- The specific commit hash to use
- The directory path (`specification/schemaregistry/SchemaRegistry`)

To regenerate the client, follow the [`tsp-client` docs](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-tools/tree/main/tools/tsp-client/README.md).

## Code Structure

The Azure Schema Registry client library follows a hybrid approach with both generated and handwritten code:

> ### Generated Code

Reviewer: Do not list exact files in either generated or handwritten code. Just mention that any files with name _patch.py or under encoder/jsonencoder include handwritten code. Otherwise, all files under azure/ are generated.

   perfstress GetSchemaByIdTest --duration=30 --parallel=10 --num-schemas=100
   ```

### Performance Test Options

Common options for all performance tests:
- `--duration=30` - Number of seconds to run operations (default: 10)
- `--iterations=1` - Number of test iterations (default: 1)
- `--parallel=1` - Number of parallel operations (default: 1)
- `--warm-up=5` - Warm-up time in seconds (default: 5)
- `--sync` - Run synchronous tests instead of async (default: async)

Schema Registry specific options:
- `--schema-size=150` - Size of each schema in bytes (default: 150)
- `--num-schemas=10` - Number of schemas to use in tests (default: 10)

For detailed performance testing setup and resource requirements, see the [Performance Tests README](tests/perfstress_tests/README.md).

## Additional Resources

- [Azure Schema Registry Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/event-hubs/schema-registry-overview)
- [Azure SDK Design Guidelines](https://azure.github.io/azure-sdk/python_design.html)
- [TypeSpec Documentation](https://typespec.io/)
- [Schema Registry Samples](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/tree/main/sdk/schemaregistry/azure-schemaregistry/samples)

> - [Azure Schema Registry REST API Reference](https://docs.microsoft.com/rest/api/schemaregistry/)

Reviewer: remove this link

   # Windows PowerShell
   python -m venv .venv; .\.venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1; pip install -r dev_requirements.txt
   ```

3. Install the package in development mode:
   ```bash
   pip install -e .
   ```

## Regenerating the Client from TypeSpec

The Azure Schema Registry client is generated from TypeSpec definitions. The TypeSpec files are maintained in the [Azure REST API Specs repository](https://github.com/Azure/azure-rest-api-specs/tree/main/specification/schemaregistry/SchemaRegistry).

### Prerequisites for Code Generation

1. Install the TypeSpec client generator:
   ```bash
   npm install -g @azure-tools/typespec-client-generator-cli
   ```

2. Ensure you have the latest TypeSpec definitions by checking the [specification directory](https://github.com/Azure/azure-rest-api-specs/tree/main/specification/schemaregistry/SchemaRegistry).

### Regeneration Process

The client regeneration is controlled by the `tsp-location.yaml` file in the root of this package directory. This file specifies:
- The TypeSpec specification repository (`Azure/azure-rest-api-specs`)
- The specific commit hash to use
- The directory path (`specification/schemaregistry/SchemaRegistry`)

> To regenerate the client:
> 
> 1. Update the commit hash in `tsp-location.yaml` if needed to point to the latest TypeSpec definitions
> 2. Run the TypeSpec client generation tool:
>    ```bash
>    tsp-client update
>    ```
> 
> 3. Review the generated changes and ensure handwritten code in `_patch.py` files remains intact
> 
> ### tsp-client Usage
> 
> The `tsp-client` tool will:
> - Download the TypeSpec definitions from the specified commit
> - Generate Python client code based on the TypeSpec specifications
> - Preserve handwritten customizations in `_patch.py` files
> - Update generated models, operations, and client classes
> 
> For more information on tsp-client usage, see the [tsp-client documentation](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-tools/tree/main/tools/tsp-client/README.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To regenerate the client, follow the [`tsp-client` docs](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-tools/tree/main/tools/tsp-client/README.md).
```
